# Generated-Art-Museum
This program creates a procedurally-generated museum, which the user can then explore. The procedural generation happens at multiple layers, including the museum layer, room layer, and art layer.

## Museum Layer
The museum is generated starting as a single entry room, and 3-5 more rooms are placed one at a time next to current rooms, with hallways in between. The seed for generating the museum is the museum's name, so 'visiting' a museum with the same name multiple times will always generate the same museum.

## Room Layer
Rooms: Each room can have up to three paintings per wall and up to five sculptures total. The exact number is random and also depends on how much space is taken up by hallways to other rooms.

## Art Layer
### Art Piece Titles
Art Piece Titles: The title of every art piece is generated starting with a template, chosen at random, like "The [Adjective] [Noun]" or "The [Noun]'s [Noun]". The words in brackets are then replaced by an appropriate word, chosen at random from a long list of possible words of that type, e.g. "The [Adjective] [Noun]" can become "The Quick Table". This title is used as the random number generation seed when generating sculptures and paintings, and so any sculptures or paintings with the same title will look the same.

### Sculptures
Sculptures: There are two types of sculptures: tree sculptures and cube sculptures. Tree sculptures are 3d tree fractals that have random branch counts, sizes, and angles. Cube sculptures are generated by starting with a single cube and then repeatedly placing a new cube on a random exposed face.

### Paintings
Paintings: Each painting is generated as a tree data structure representing an algorithm that is run on each pixel of the painting to choose the color of that pixel. This data structure is made of effect nodes and leaf nodes. Each effect node uses a specific method to combine the colors produced by its children nodes. For example, effect nodes might invert one color, average two colors, mask one color using a second color, etc. The leaf nodes of the tree generate a color with no inputs, returning either a constant color chosen when the node is generated or a color that goes from black to white depending on the coordinates of the current pixel.

A more advanced example of the painting generation algorithm with source code can be found at the link below.</br>
I further refined the painting algorithm I used in this project to make it work as a WebGL shader and to add a time component to cause the paintings to be animated.</br>
Warning: Since the image is randomly generated, it may include rapid flashing.</br>
https://www.shadertoy.com/view/ctGSDw
